[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: Eileen
McKusick is back with us today
to share her expertise on
healing the energy field
surrounding us.
As this epoch in
history continues
to roll out its surprises,
human anxiety mounts.
According to Eileen,
by tidying up
the first line of defense,
our energy matrix,
we can avoid the illness
that could eventually follow.
Because your body knows
exactly what to do once
your field is clear.
Welcome back, Eileen.
It's so good to see you again.
>> EILEEN MCKUSICK: Yeah.
It's great to be back
with you too, Regina.
>> REGINA: So we have so
many things to tidy up here.
First of all, I just
have to say because we
were talking off-camera,
you're known worldwide.
You have practitioners all over
the world in Biofield Tuning.
I didn't know till today that
you got your very first tuning
forks from GAIAM, way back
when GAIAM had a store.
That's where you got
your first tuning forks.
>> MCKUSICK: I did in 1996.
>> REGINA: I love it.
>> MCKUSICK: I was reading
books about the use of color
and sound and music and healing.
That was when this journey
with sound started.
And just as soon as I finished
my little stack of books,
I got a GAIAM
catalog in the mail
that had a set of tuning
forks for healing in it.
And that was what
got me started.
>> REGINA: I love it.
So here we are full circle
all those years later.
But there's more to that circle.
You got a long way to go.
So first of all,
there's something else
that you have said that
I find interesting,
because so many-- you
deal with frequencies,
you deal with sound.
So many people say you just
have to raise your vibrations
and raise your frequencies.
We were talking about
and you say, oh, that
irks me when people say that.
So let's get your take on it.
>> MCKUSICK: Well as a
writer, as a wordsmith,
and as a sound therapist, I
realized it's so important
the specificity with
which we use words.
And when we heal, we're not
really technically raising
our vibration.
This idea that somehow
higher is better
or that we're going up in
this one kind of linear way.
What I find happens is that
we clarify our vibration.
We bring our vibration in tune.
We want to get the
noise out of the signal.
And when we do that,
we raise our voltage,
we raise the amount
of electric current
that's flowing through
us, and we actually
have an experience of
expanding our field.
We expand out into
our potential.
Like, why limit it in just one
direction when what is really
happening is we are expanding
out in every direction
and accessing our
potential as human beings.
>> REGINA: Yeah, absolutely.
And when you think about
it, it's like raising.
So if we're talking about
it in terms of music, right?
It's as though somehow a C is
more lowly than an A or a B.
And actually, that is not true.
It's more harmonizing
the total effect of all
of these frequencies, right?
>> MCKUSICK: We want all
of them to be in tune.
And this sort of demonization
of these low frequencies,
now, I joke about,
well, how does that make
the bass players feel--
>> REGINA: And the drum players.
>> MCKUSICK: --and
the drum players.
We know we need the low
frequencies for sleep.
So the whole spectrum
of frequency we
want to avail ourselves
to experience and to get
all of those in tune.
>> REGINA: And you've also
said that the low frequencies
actually help us take
up oxygen in the body.
So I mean, I like the
tabla for example,
the sound of the tabla.
That deep Indian drum.
What's actually going
on there when we hear
these deep resonant sounds?
Most people feel it on
a really primal level.
It kind of wakes you up.
It feels like it's feeding you.
You say it's more than that?
>> MCKUSICK: Well, the work
of John Stuart Reid who is
a cymatics expert, he observed
that these low frequencies,
these bass rhythms like the
tabla cause the blood to uptake
oxygen.
>> REGINA: I mean,
that's fascinating.
When you think about it, when
you go to different experiences
where you're doing a
trance dance or whatnot,
it's really those
lower frequencies
that kind of get you
into this ecstatic state.
>> MCKUSICK: Exactly.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
So then you're
talking about getting
rid of what we would call the
static or the dirty noise that
is taking away from the
harmonization of all
these frequencies?
>> MCKUSICK: We all have
noise in our signal,
if you think of your body
with an electrical system
and everything is running
in different rhythms
and expressing different tones.
Trauma-- multigenerational
trauma, accidents or injuries,
a vicious inner critic
being inwardly divided
and having just a lot of
noise in your own mind
all create static
that diminishes us.
Self-doubt, low self-worth.
All of these things stop us
from having that experience
of accessing our potential.
And everybody knows that they
have greatness within them.
That's certainly
been my experience.
Many people are stuck
feeling like they can't get
to that self-realized place.
>> REGINA: And the
mean girl thing,
you've also said that this has a
lot to do kind of with the mean
inner voice.
And I'm using females
because of a subject
we had talked about before,
which has to do with digestion.
And so many people
having chronic
digestive disorders now.
It's like we're
allergic to everything.
But you say what we're
actually allergic to is
our own thoughts.
>> MCKUSICK: Our own thoughts.
Yeah.
I've worked with thousands
of clients over the years.
And that is really what stands
out to me more than anything,
that the enemy is within.
And people are inwardly
divided into judge
and the part that's judged
into victim and perpetrator.
And they have very
unkind dialogues
going on inside of them.
So there's this experience
of being inwardly split
and then this voice that is just
or maybe multiple voices that
are mean, that are
punitive, that are critical,
that if that was a person
who was following you
around and saying those things,
you wouldn't stand for it.
You're like, you're
a really bad friend.
Like, get out of here.
And yet somehow we've
been conditioned
to accept it in our own mind.
And it's very, very destructive.
In fact, I observed a pattern.
Everybody that I treated
that were diagnosed
with Crohn's disease just had a
vicious, vicious inner critic.
They were like eating
themselves alive with acidity
within their own minds.
>> REGINA: So this is highly
critical type of thought
you're talking about here.
But what about something
that seems like it's
kind of more ordinary and it's
definitely ubiquitous, I see.
And that is the
subject of self-doubt.
I'm just seeing this a lot in
people around me questioning
themselves.
Very few people actually don't
question themselves and say,
what am I doing?
I mean, why am I bothering?
Am I on the right path?
This kind of chronic self-doubt,
what does that do to a person?
>> MCKUSICK: Well, you know,
I see that too, Regina.
And I think this past year, that
really sunk in for me that I
was noticing the same thing.
>> REGINA: Me too.
Yeah.
>> MCKUSICK: So I teach the
advanced classes in Biofield
Tuning.
And we do a number of
exercises in that that really
gets people centered and
grounded and embodied.
And what I really notice
is that after people
go through those experiences,
they're self-confident.
And you can see it in them.
They all look like they're like
the star of their own show.
Like, everything
that we are, if we
can let ourselves be
our authentic self,
we're all amazing.
And you don't have
to go out and get it.
That is in you.
And self-doubt becomes a
self-fulfilling prophecy
because that creates a lot
of noise in the signal.
And then you're
just in the noise.
Instead of in that
comfortable clear like,
I'm awesome kind of place
because everybody is.
That's really been
my observation.
>> REGINA: It's
interesting, though,
because it's almost come hand
in hand with after the pandemic
came in, it changed the nature
of reality and the questions
people ask and the way people
want to allocate their time
and energy.
So a lot of people have taken
a courageous step to say,
you know I'm not going
back to that job,
which we have
shortages in fields
all over the world because
workers aren't showing up
but many people are saying,
I can't do that job anymore.
And they're trying to
put it back together.
Like, here I've always
wanted to do this or that.
But then comes that sticky old
subject of survival and money.
And as soon as a price tag seems
to be attached to something
someone really wants to
do, self-doubt and anxiety
seems to take over.
Do you notice this as well?
>> MCKUSICK: Sure.
And I've been
through that myself.
Do what you love and
the money will follow.
But sometimes there is a gap.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
There's a gap.
Exactly.
>> MCKUSICK: And I definitely
struggled when I was first
creating Biofield Tuning,
working in the field.
I wasn't sure about
what I was doing.
And I think it takes--
you can't shortcut experience.
Self-doubt is
appropriate, but as you
gain more experience and more
comfort with what you're doing,
then it goes away.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
That is true.
And then there's
something that's
just chronic where people,
continually their entire life
doubt themselves.
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
>> REGINA: How does that
tend to play out in the body?
That kind of emotion.
>> MCKUSICK: Well, you're
going to see that in digestion
because that is creating
noise in the signal,
it's creating low-level
stress and discomfort.
So anything that you've got
that is a signal jammer that
is stopping the body from
accessing a clear blueprint
is going to show up.
One of the places where I see
self-doubt in the inner critic
really show up is in
people's right hips.
>> REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>> MCKUSICK: So that's just
a pattern that I've observed.
When you're in
self-doubt and self-worth
and constantly criticizing
ourselves within,
it creates an imbalance
in the field in that sort
of right root sacral area.
And then because there's
noise in the signal there,
the body can't repair
itself properly.
>> REGINA: So it starts
radiating out to the hip
joints.
>> MCKUSICK: Exactly.
>> REGINA: And the right
hip, in particular.
>> MCKUSICK: In particular.
>> REGINA: Oh, pay attention
if you have anything going
in your right hip.
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
>> REGINA: We're here
we're talking about
an electromagnetic field.
And I love the work you
do in the Biofield Tuning.
Because you can read a person--
you and your practitioners
around the world.
When someone comes to you,
you start assessing out
what's going on with
them by reading,
I believe that you start with
the left side of the field
using your tuning fork
and finding resistance
when certain ages come up.
And that's where the trauma
may have started and so forth.
Talk about that a little bit
for people who don't already
know your work.
>> MCKUSICK: Sure.
It's sort of an odd practice.
And it took me a very long
time to get over my concern
about how strange it was.
But now we have
thousands of people,
like you said, around
the world doing it.
And it's normalized it a bit.
But Biofield Tuning
is a little bit
like using a tuning fork
like a needle on an album.
It's like dropping
a needle on an album
and reading the vibrational
record of somebody's life.
So in this model,
our memories are
stored in standing waves in
our body's magnetic field.
And there's a very specific
anatomy and physiology
that I mapped over many years.
I discovered that
there was a pattern.
And every time I heard
what sounded like sadness
through the overtones and
undertones of the tuning fork,
it was off the left shoulder.
Every time I came across things
that sounded and felt angry,
it was off the right
side of the solar plexus.
And I essentially discovered
that, just like you and I have
pretty much the same
digestive tract,
we have the same
biofield anatomy as well.
And so the essence of my work
is this biofield anatomy map.
So we're sort of striated.
And different emotions produce
different frequency signatures.
And then those are stored in
different areas of the field.
The field is also time lined.
So as we generate information,
we go through our day
and we have our thoughts,
our feelings, our actions,
our experiences, that's
all electrical impulses
in the body.
And those get
recorded in the field
and they move away from us.
Right?
So most people's fields
extend about 6 feet around
on either side.
And what I discovered was
that the outer boundary
of the field, because
there's a boundary,
it's a torus or a bubble
with a spiral channel.
That that outer boundary
contained information
from gestation and then birth.
And then as we went
along, the fork
was literally reading this
track as it was laid down.
>> REGINA: It's almost like
tree rings, is how I see it.
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
>> REGINA: So you've got
the rings of the tree,
the years of the tree.
So you're coming in.
And so when you're using
the fork, all of a sudden,
the tone shifts for you or you
find a resistance of some kind,
you say, oh, what
happened at age 3?
Right?
>> MCKUSICK: Exactly.
Just for an example, I
was working on a gentleman
not that long ago.
And I got to this
place in his field
where the sound went so wonky.
And he could hear it
and I could hear it.
And he's like, what's that?
And I plotted it
on the timeline.
And I said, this is
something that happened
when you were around 18.
And he's like, oh, that's when
I went through the windshield
of a car.
Right?
And you think about the
chaos of that experience.
The pain, the
resistance, the shock.
Right?
Those are all very
dissonant vibrations
that got laid down in his
record, in his memory banks.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Well, I did a session with you
years ago when we first met.
And what I thought
was interesting
is definitely hit on the primary
times when things happen.
I mean, you got them exactly.
What happened at this
age and this age.
But then as you went
along, there were more.
And I thought, oh, yeah.
Wait a minute.
And things that I wasn't
even remembering anymore.
But there were
actually profound.
So it actually helps
us reflect back
in our own memory
the things that we
may have even suppressed.
>> MCKUSICK: Absolutely.
Or we can also find the
things that are precognitive,
that happen from
gestation to three
that we don't remember that.
Might have been really
formative where we form beliefs.
Like if you were a baby
who was left to cry it out
or bottle fed on a
schedule, you form
a belief early on that
nobody listens to me.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
So now you've gone through.
This is on the left
side of the body,
you've read the tree
rings, what happened here.
Oh, OK.
All right.
Then you go to the
right side of the body.
And this is, as I
understand it, what
the lingering effects
of these traumas
have been on what
you're still carrying?
>> MCKUSICK: Well, not so much.
The left side is
these file drawers.
So the left side is more of the
yin inward kind of feelings.
Frustration, powerlessness,
sadness, holding things back.
So this is more
wet, more inward.
Whereas the right side
is more hot or fiery.
It's anger, it's overdoing,
it's being a caretaker.
>> REGINA: Is it how
it expresses itself?
>> MCKUSICK: It's how
it expresses itself.
>> REGINA: I see.
Yeah.
>> MCKUSICK: So we might find
issues in the right shoulder
because you keep saying
yes when you mean no.
Or we might find issues
in the left shoulder
because you have
a lot of sadness
that you're not expressing.
And it's just sort of piling up.
So the biofield anatomy,
each energy center
has a particular theme
off each side of it.
So we don't always
start on the left.
I often do.
But sometimes, I might
start on the right.
If your right shoulder
and right hip hurt,
come start over there.
And then come follow
up on the left.
>> REGINA: So what happens if
you have two frozen shoulders?
>> MCKUSICK: Well, we
work on both of them.
[LAUGHTER]
If you have two frozen
shoulders, I would say,
you're really
stuck in your life.
You're trying to take
care of everybody else
and you're not taking
care of yourself
and you're sad about it.
>> REGINA: Let's get into
the subject of cancers
for a moment.
How do you see that showing
up in a person's field?
>> MCKUSICK: Well, you know,
it's interesting that you ask
about cancer genome.
Because in Biofield Tuning,
we don't treat cancer.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> MCKUSICK: In
the United States,
you're not allowed to treat
cancer with anything other than
drugs or surgery.
>> REGINA: But it has
to show up in the field.
>> MCKUSICK: It does show up.
It shows up as stuck energy,
as places where there's
traumas that have been present.
For example, women
with breast cancer
have often observed that
they get it on the right side
if they've been putting
everybody else's needs ahead
of their own and
neglecting themselves.
And then cancer often becomes
a gift and an opportunity.
You realize that it's
time to take care of you.
>> REGINA: Right.
And that's usually, you're
giving yourself away
at your own expense.
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
>> REGINA: OK.
So now you've
identified these things.
So now, where does
the healing part
come in with the tuning
fork and vibration?
>> MCKUSICK: Well, you know
how we talk about having charge
around certain things, like
that divorce you went through 10
years ago and it
still gets you upset?
So that's a place
in your memory bank,
in your field where you
literally do have charge.
And that is the
electrical voltage
that should be flowing
through your body is
stuck in that particular--
>> REGINA: So it's just making
a jaggedy stuck kind of place
in you over amped place?
>> MCKUSICK: That's
the way I see it.
It's sort of like a
memory that's overamped.
That's why we feel resistance
when we hit it because there's
charge and it's stuck there.
And it's usually
trapped in chaos waves
because all of the
upset that was involved.
So there's a sort of pocket
of chaos and stuck energy.
And we could call it our
emotional baggage, right?
The things that weigh
us down, that we
haven't digested, that
we haven't integrated,
that we haven't forgiven.
And so a tuning fork
is both diagnostic
in that it helps us to locate
these places in our memory bank
where things are jammed
up, but it is also
immediately therapeutic.
Because it starts giving the
body the information of order.
>> REGINA: So when you first--
using the tuning
fork and it sounds
maybe a little discordant,
when you first discover it.
So what starts happening in
that transformational process?
>> MCKUSICK: So it's the
physics principles of resonance
and entrainment.
The tuning fork will initially
resonate with whatever
the story is that is there.
But then a strong
coherent signal
will overtake and entrain
a weak incoherent signal.
So I describe it
as it sort of acts
like a mirror in
that it reflects
to the body what's going on.
Like the guy with
the car accident.
And you're like,
whoa, what's that?
It's an opportunity for
that kind of reflection.
It's like you don't know
that your hair is a mess
and that you have a
poppy seed in your teeth
and you don't have
the opportunity
to fix it until you
see it reflected.
So it's the same thing.
The moment we see
ourselves out of order,
we immediately go to
put ourselves in order.
And so the body's organizing
intelligence does this.
It has a mirror.
The tuning fork acts
like a metronome.
It's producing a steady
rhythm that the body
can order its rhythms against.
And so as the information
and the rhythms that
are present there
start to harmonize,
the energy that's been
stuck sort of decouples.
And then the tuning
fork acts like a magnet.
And it's sort of odd as this is.
I'm able to do what I call
click, drag, and drop, where
I use the tuning
fork like a magnet.
I hook into that little pocket
of energy that was stuck
and I bring it
back to the midline
of the body, the
central channel where
it goes back into circulation.
>> REGINA: So how do these tree
rings of trauma and events that
happen and our reactions to
them correlate with maybe just
making visible the subconscious?
>> MCKUSICK: Hmm.
Well, that's exactly what
it is because this is--
our biofield is our--
it's our conscious mind,
it's our subconscious
mind, it's our memories.
I would even go so far as
to say that it's our soul.
>> REGINA: Hmm.
So it's allowing
you to see what is
serving as a hindrance
in the subconscious.
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
Absolutely.
And it gets right into it.
And people don't even
need to talk about it.
>> REGINA: That's one of the
things I think is beautiful
about it.
Talk therapy only does so much.
After you've talked
and talked and talked,
it seems to me, oftentimes,
you just reinforce the story.
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
Absolutely.
I mean, we can do this
without even saying what
happened when you were three.
I can just be like, well,
I hit a stuck spot here.
Where are you feeling
this in your body?
What are you noticing?
Just make it somatic so that
you can tell-- because all
of these places where we
have jam ups in the field,
we have tension in the body.
So these areas of tension
create inflammation.
And we know that inflammation
is the root of disease.
So if you end up with
excess in one place,
you get deficiency in the other.
And then you're out of balance.
So really on a very
fundamental level,
this is just helping you to
relax subconscious tension
that you're still
holding from old trauma.
>> REGINA: So how does this
then resonate out in the subtle
bodies?
OK.
So let's say, how
does it resonate out
into the mental and
the emotional bodies?
>> MCKUSICK: Well, I would say
that it settles people down.
It helps you to go from being
maybe habitually dysregulated
to being more regulated.
From being incoherent and
upset and feeling like
you have ants in your pants
or discomfort of some kind
to just being more at ease.
>> REGINA: So once you can
bring the field into coherence
through the tuning, because
first there's the recognition
the person saying, oh, yes.
That happened at 18.
So now it's on the
table, you're going
through those sub frequency
sounds, you're doing the over--
you say, overarching harmonics
or coherence in forks.
From that point, that's going
to then start automatically
radiating out and
making those corrections
in the emotional
body and the response
it's been holding on to?
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
And the responses.
So those knee jerk places
where your parents always
got your goat in this way.
All of a sudden, you find
yourself less reactive,
less triggered, more
able to keep a calm
center in difficult situations.
Certainly more resilient.
I think that that's a
really big part of it.
If you're holding a lot of
tension from a lot of trauma,
you can't take much more.
But if you're sort of
big and soft and relaxed
and you've released tension, you
can handle those difficulties
with a lot more ease and grace.
>> REGINA: Well, you've had
to go through a lot of these
transitions of your own
or these transformations.
You had a lot of
digestive issues.
For example, we talked about
that earlier at one time.
But as you've moved through
the process of using the tuning
forks, you literally can-- you
don't have any of those issues
anymore.
>> MCKUSICK: No.
I used to have
terrible digestion.
Gas bloating, heartburn,
stomach aches--
>> REGINA: Everything.
>> MCKUSICK: Everything.
Everything miserable.
Go to bed miserable.
But at the time I was
giving my power away,
I didn't have good boundaries.
I was under stress and
running on adrenaline.
So all of these
things contribute
to not being in that sort of
solid place of rest and digest.
And over the years
through receiving tuning,
I started teaching this in 2010.
And my first students
started working on me.
And right from the
very beginning,
my digestion started to improve.
And I also learned a lot about
boundaries, about saying no,
about how to not put
myself in situations
where I was under time
pressure, under money pressure,
revving, stressing,
feeling like a victim.
I've learned a lot
of hard lessons
and gotten myself to a place
where for the most part,
I enjoy being in a
coherent regulated state.
And I'm way better at
boundaries, obviously.
And so now I can eat
anything and everything.
And I don't suffer at all.
>> REGINA: I think everyone's
ears are perking up.
The women in particular.
Ears are perking up at this one.
To think of how to actually
do that instead of taking
yet another digestive aid.
Going to another
gastroenterologist or whatnot.
You're finding it's
mostly emotion.
And I find that too, honestly.
>> MCKUSICK: It's
mostly emotion.
It really is.
And it's also really important
that we express our emotion.
I had a very difficult emotional
thing happen a few months ago.
And I tried to suppress it.
And my stomach
immediately protested.
Like immediately, I
got a stomach ache.
And I was like, well,
this isn't going to work.
Like, I absolutely have
to express my emotions.
And I can do that
diplomatically.
We can figure out ways to
express our emotions that are
appropriate, that don't hurt
or they might hurt other people
but they don't-- we don't have
to go off the hook or be wild
and uncontrollable.
>> REGINA: Suppressing
it is not going to work.
>> MCKUSICK: Suppressing
it doesn't work.
We really have to learn
to dance in a healthy way
with our emotions and
not suppress them.
>> REGINA: So how long
did that process take you
in the beginning?
Once you had your
student work on you?
How long did it take you to
work through all of this?
>> MCKUSICK: Well, I've
had a lot of tune ups.
>> REGINA: As you said, you're
in a lovely position where you
can have a lot of tune-ups.
>> MCKUSICK: Exactly.
I've had a lot of tune ups. And
I've learned a lot as a tuner.
Because I work in people
and I see their bad habits
or their imbalances.
And I'm, I do that too.
Right?
So I've had kind of a
window into the imbalances
of human nature and seeing that
kind of behavior in myself.
But I've worked
with people and I've
seen them completely
turn their digestion
around and 6 to 10 sessions.
>> REGINA: Wonderful.
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And we're going to
get to it at the end in terms
of what we can do for ourselves
if someone doesn't have access
to a practitioner.
But right now, there are
thousands of practitioners,
but another interesting thing
is that through this field,
we have, of course, quantum
entrainment and entanglement.
So this can actually
be done at a distance.
Remote tuning can be done.
Can you talk about
this and how long
you've been doing it,
when you discovered
that the person didn't have
to be in the room with you
anymore.
>> MCKUSICK: Well, people would
ask me for years if I could do
it at a distance.
And I thought that was the most
ridiculous thing to ask me.
I'm like, this is sound
waves on the body.
This is physics people.
Like, I am not doing
this at a distance.
And I was arrogant and snide
about it, as people can be,
right?
There's a lot of
people out there
who feel this way about distance
tuning and I was no different.
But I am a scientist and
I do like experiments.
And so I think it
was probably in 2011,
I was working on
my master's thesis.
And I was working with a
fellow by the name of Dr. Carl
Merritt, who is very,
very knowledgeable
about the biofield
and energy medicine.
And he's a physician
and M.D. And he
was helping me with my thesis.
And he said, Eileen, how about
if we try a distance session?
And I said, OK.
I'm game.
Let's give it a try.
But I went into it not
believing it was possible.
And what he did was he laid down
in his office in California,
and I approached my
treatment table in Vermont,
pretending that he was there.
We had no open line of
communication at all.
Now, at this point, I
had mapped the field
and I learned the language
of vibration pretty well.
And so I just went
and did a session
as if there was a body there.
And much to my amazement,
all of the same patterns
of information that would
show up when there was a body
there showed up.
And so I went through
and I took notes,
and I observed the years
that were really stressful,
the organs in his body that
weren't quite up to snuff,
where he had inflammation.
The personality of his mother,
the personality of his father,
head injury at five.
Like all the things that I
had learned to figure out
by reading the field.
And then we got on
the phone afterwards
and I went through my notes.
And he said, Eileen,
all of that is correct.
So how did you feel?
I felt like I had to eat crow.
I was like, wow,
I've been so rude.
>> REGINA: But weren't you
incredibly relieved to know
it's possible?
>> MCKUSICK: Well, I
was a little mortified,
because I'd been so adamant
that it wasn't possible.
>> REGINA: Once you got done
being ashamed of yourself.
>> MCKUSICK: Yes.
Then I was amazed.
Because it opened up a whole
new world of possibility
to actually be able to
do this at a distance
with no open line
of communication.
Now, after that, I
did some with people
without open line
of communication.
But now we do it through
Zoom or through the phone.
>> REGINA: And so your
practitioners have been taught
this as well?
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
Every single person who's a
Biofield Tuning practitioner
knows how to do this.
>> REGINA: So now, this makes it
a lot easier because if people
want to get tuned up, they can
do it on a more frequent basis
because they don't
have to be, obviously,
in physical proximity.
So let's talk about
something else
because we're going to get on
to the notion of our own voices
as our tuning forks.
This is something you're
really charged about and really
involved with right now.
Going beyond the forks, back
to the most primitive thing.
OK.
Our own voices, but right now,
there's some studies going on.
And I think this is
really important.
I know almost 40 years ago,
my group of beings told me,
the most profound
accepted new healing that
will happen in my lifetime is
going to happen through sound.
And they said, including sound
beyond the ability to hear it
auditorily and that
which we can hear.
And I remember thinking,
that's interesting.
So let's talk about some of the
great strides that are being
made now in these studies.
>> MCKUSICK: Well, we did a
study in December of 2020 that
was originally going to
be an in-person study.
But because of COVID, we
decided to move it to remote.
And it was on anxiety.
So things that are
rhythmic, that are tonal.
Like for example,
anxiety is just a pattern
in your electrical system.
So that's pretty easy
to treat at a distance.
But if you have a pinched
nerve in your neck
and it's going down your arm, I
would rather see you in-person.
Right?
If there's physical things.
But these things like anxiety
that are purely energetic
are very readily treated
it through at a distance.
And so our first study was
just a feasibility study.
We had 15 people.
And everybody came in
with clinical anxiety.
And everybody left
without clinical anxiety.
And the markers
were very dramatic.
They were very dramatic drops.
And we wrote both a
quantitative paper
with all the graphs
and p-values.
And we wrote a qualitative paper
that was about people's stories
and experiences with it.
And basically, it changed their
relationship to themselves.
People said things like,
I know when I'm hungry,
I know when I'm thirsty.
I know what my needs are.
That they just really settle
down into greater regulation.
And it was very consistent
across the board
with all of the participants
reported the same thing.
>> REGINA: This is important
because there are rising levels
of mass anxiety.
>> MCKUSICK: Everywhere.
This was just three
one-hour sessions
at a distance that
dramatically changed
people's quality of life.
>> REGINA: And you're saying
they knew when they were
hungry, they knew when
they were thirsty.
Are you saying that the anxiety
was blocking out their ability
to even be in tune with
the simplest things
about their own functioning?
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
When you're very full
of anxiety and you've
got all of those
pulsing currents running
through your body
all the time, that's
a strong signal that
interrupts your ability
to perceive your
more subtle signals.
If all you are aware of is
your fear and your discomfort
and things like that, you're
not aware of the subtle signals
that your body is sending
you about what its needs are.
>> REGINA: Well, because
things are changing rapidly,
because we have changes
happening in the cosmos,
on our planet, you know,
societally, in every which way,
everybody can feel
changes upon us.
And most humans don't
respond that well to change.
The notion of change.
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
That's true.
>> REGINA: It means you
don't know the outcome.
So what are you seeing
in your practice
in terms of rising levels
of fear and anxiety
at large throughout all of your
practitioners' practices as
well?
>> MCKUSICK: Well, it
definitely got worse in COVID.
Because this feeling of just a
collective fear and discomfort
and anxiety.
And certainly in
the younger people,
it's absolutely rampant.
Kids, teenagers--
>> REGINA: They're struggling
more than the adults are?
>> MCKUSICK: Well,
everybody is struggling.
Everybody is struggling.
>> REGINA: But they
don't know their futures.
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
And their futures
don't seem to work.
Right?
At least you and I grew up in a
world where we could have a job
and get an apartment.
You know what I mean?
Like things kind of worked.
But it's become so stressful
and so uncertain and so endemic
to the whole population of them.
The holomorphic field of young
people is just rife with this.
And social pressure.
But the amazing thing is
that young people respond
very quickly to this work.
So somebody who's
15, I only need
to do a few sessions
with them, give them
a little bit of instruction
about self-regulation
and self-care and we're going
to see significant shifts.
If I'm working with
somebody who's 70
and they have patterns that have
been going on for a lifetime,
it's going to take
more sessions.
It's going to take
a longer duration
to get the body to shift and
start adopting new patterns.
>> REGINA: So there was
another study too, as I recall.
Are there two?
OK.
>> MCKUSICK: We're currently
underway in a three-year study,
fully funded by grants that
we have 60 participants
in and a control group.
And we're repeating the
same study on anxiety.
Taking a diverse
group of people.
And in this one,
we're going to do
six sessions instead of three.
So we're going to really
see what is the difference.
What happens when you have
six biofilms to assess?
>> REGINA: So what happens
with the control group?
>> MCKUSICK: To be honest
in this moment, Regina,
we've been all over
the place for that.
And I'm not sure
what we settled on.
I'm working with
another organization,
a research organization called
The Consciousness and Healing
Initiative that's founded by
my friend and colleague Shamini
Jain.
And so they are working on
the IRB submission right now
because you have to get
permission for these kinds
of things and make sure it's--
>> REGINA: I'm just trying
to imagine what the control
group's experience
would look like.
Because they have to think
they're getting the same thing.
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
Or have something that might
be comparable but different.
>> REGINA: Comparable
but is different.
Yeah.
Well, that'll be interesting.
So 3 years, 60 people.
We'll see what
comes out of that.
It sounds like the first
one, you did great with.
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
We were so pleased
with the outcome.
The way that it got written up.
And getting accepted
into peer review.
So they've--
>> REGINA: This is the deal.
Yeah.
That is the deal.
And that's what my guides
were telling me back then.
This will be accepted
in our lifetimes
as a powerful mode of
healing that is non-invasive
compared to everything that
was going on at the time.
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
>> REGINA: This was in the
era of AIDS and all that too.
So at the time I thought, wow.
That would be great
if that happened.
Here you are.
It's happening.
>> MCKUSICK: It's happening.
>> REGINA: So now let's go even
further into the most simple
thing we carry with
us all the time,
our voice and the work
you're doing with that now.
>> MCKUSICK: So I paired up with
these two wonderful Australian
brothers--
Isaac, and Thorald Koren.
And I initially worked
with them because they
are specialists in
helping people to overcome
their fear of singing.
And they work with you
to co-write and record
some songs so that you can
just overcome that fear.
And I think this is a fear
that so many people have and I
certainly had it.
I'm so comfortable speaking in
front of thousands of people.
But the thought of singing
was absolutely terrifying.
And I didn't really feel
connected to my voice
or to that authentic place
where your voice really
comes from when you sing.
I'm a big fan of
meeting fears head on.
Because where we have
fear, we also have power.
And so the exercise in
addressing and overcoming fears
is really one of the best things
that we can do for ourselves.
It's so expanding.
Right?
And so I started
working with them
to write and record some
songs, but then COVID happened.
And I couldn't get to California
to do the recording with them.
And to be honest, I
didn't feel ready.
I still felt like I
had all these blocks
and places in my
body and I still
had fear and tension around it.
And so without even trying,
and I don't even really fully
remember how it happened.
This whole body of work that
we call the sonic anatomy
came through us.
And what we discovered was
that there were very specific
tones-like sounds
that resonated in very
specific areas of the body.
And there are primitive
sounds, like sounds
that babies make when
they're exploring
their human instrument sounds.
Like "ga" and "wa" and
"ma" and "pa" and "da."
But the discovery
through our own
shared experience
that, for example "waa"
resonates in the tailbone.
And "yaa" comes from
the front of the heart.
"Haa" is in the throat.
And so we developed
a program called
Sing the Body Electric, where
we take people through what we
call the tones and the demi
tones of the sonic anatomy.
And it is an incredibly powerful
and liberating experience
to make all of these
sounds because you
don't have to sound good, you
don't have to be in pitch.
The metaphor that I use is that
we're all like pipe organs.
And we've got all of these pipes
that have been shut down in us.
Places we don't go, emotions
we don't express, old traumas.
I mean, so many people
have voice trauma.
Right?
You've got a mouse nest in this
pipe and the key to this one
doesn't work.
And so we don't feel
comfortable singing
because we don't have our full
instrument available to us.
So it's really like
an exercise in pipe
cleaning where you just go
to these different areas
in the body and you make
whatever sound is there.
And it might sound awful,
because that's just
what is held there.
Whatever emotion or tension
that you're holding,
the sound of the heart
might come out, yeah.
And you just keep on adding
air and it blows out the pipe.
And then all of a sudden
you're like, "yeaah."
>> REGINA: You're really
able to make sounds.
>> MCKUSICK: So when we
take people through--
it's like an eight or
nine-hour workshop.
At the beginning, we have
them sing happy birthday
to themselves because
everybody knows how to do that.
And then we just make all
of these vowel sounds.
And we really play in
tuning up our instruments.
And then we sing happy
birthday at the end.
And everybody has a completely
different experience.
They are more soulful,
they're more creative,
they're more playful,
they're more in the body.
>> REGINA: I can feel
the truth in this.
Yeah.
>> MCKUSICK: They're
just like, oh, my God.
I can sing.
And we didn't even sing.
All we did was just make
a whole bunch of noise.
Very freely and as loud or
quiet or as oddly as we want to.
And then suddenly,
because you've
opened up your human
instrument, you get to enjoy it.
And I think this is one of
life's greatest pleasures.
Is to enjoy singing and
how it resonates in you.
It's energizing.
They've done a lot
of studies that
show that singing in groups
is so good for our health.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> MCKUSICK: And
so many people--
>> REGINA: Rupert Sheldrake
I think was involved in some
of that.
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
Yeah.
And so many people, probably
90% of the population
doesn't get to
enjoy this process.
But it's more than that.
Because it's really by our
word that we create our life.
Right?
The word is creative.
And we speak our
lives into being.
And if you're just
using your voice
in one little place and your
life is going to be like that.
>> REGINA: It's true.
I, years ago, was friends with
a woman named Annie Williams.
And she has this voice
spectrum analyzer.
So you would sit and
chat with her and she's
beautiful, beautiful singer.
But this is what she
did in the daytime.
Analyze your voice and
it would go through
and show which notes were
missing from your voice,
for example.
And you could tell
a lot about-- she
could tell a lot about a
person on an emotional level,
in particular, by which
notes simply weren't there
that you don't utilize
in your own spectrum.
Did you find this as well?
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
Absolutely.
And then those are
parts of you, right?
Again, coming back to
this idea that we all
have this incredible potential,
but we struggle to access it.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> MCKUSICK: And so if you can
really open up the spectrum
of your voice and have it
be a full body experience,
then your voice is reflecting
more of who you are.
And then your life follows suit.
>> REGINA: So is it fair to
say if we even so much as when
we're driving in our car, OK.
Roll the windows up so
no one can hear you.
But just singing to ourselves,
singing to ourselves
in the shower in the
car is a beginning
of this vibrational
healing process
without having to
even go to a workshop,
then we'll talk
about the workshops.
>> MCKUSICK: Right.
Well, when you're singing, one
of the things that's happening
is your mental body,
that inner critic,
the fussing, the worrying
isn't taking place.
So if you can really sing
with your whole being,
then you get to
experience yourself
as whole and undivided.
If you can sing with just
the play and the pleasure
without what Isaac and Thorald
call the small voices coming
in and criticizing and
judging, then all of a sudden,
you've created
wholeness in yourself.
And wholeness is
where healing happens.
>> REGINA: Let's talk
about the workshops.
Are you actually doing these
workshops with these two men?
>> MCKUSICK: Yes.
We do workshops
online and in-person.
>> REGINA: What are they called
so if people want to look
for them?
>> MCKUSICK: So it's called
Sing the Body Electric.
>> REGINA: Sing
the Body Electric.
>> MCKUSICK:
singthebodyelectric.com.
And it's great for
all kinds of people.
So we have a lot of Biofield
Tuning practitioners
who learn this.
And then they might be
working with somebody
and they're all jammed
up in the heart.
They're having trouble
giving and receiving love.
So as they're tuning
the heart, they'll
also have the person
say, tone yeah.
And so people might not,
they're like, "yeaah."
>> REGINA: So it's really
making your original Bio Tuning
practice even more
rich and more subtle.
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
Because we're getting the sound
from the inside and the sound
from the outside
at the same time.
>> REGINA: Oh, yeah.
No.
Just listening to you, I
can feel the truth in that.
So what about using
the forks on ourselves?
Is it as good if we
try to do it ourselves?
And how do we know which fork
and which tone and everything
that's going to work for us?
>> MCKUSICK: Well, I always
say, the best one to start with
for self care-- and
actually this one,
a lot of people have reported
to us that it's helped
their digestion.
Is a weighted tuning fork
that I call the sonic slider.
And I originally
created that more
for vanity and rejuvenation.
Just sort of ironing
your face at the end
of the day with this
vibrating tuning fork handle.
But then over the
years, people have
discovered that it's great
for pain, for arthritis,
for digestive stuff,
for headaches, for TMJ.
So it's just a really
pleasing frequency
that's based in the Schumann
resonance, the Earth's
natural background pulse.
And we recommend that
people use it every day.
Because you're putting
coherent sound and energy
into your body.
And it helps you to just
look and feel better.
So that's one, is
the sonic slider.
But I just brought
you a 528 hertz fork.
>> REGINA: Yes.
I love this.
I love the feeling of it.
It's really-- for
me, it's all kind
of moving and flushing
upward from the eyeballs
from the sixth chakra up.
That's my experience of it.
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
And it's a really brightening,
lifting, lightning forks.
It's nice to just
sit with meditation,
if you want to quiet your
mind and bathe yourself
in coherent bright uplifting--
>> REGINA: Takes you right out.
>> MCKUSICK: --frequencies.
It'll quiet your
mind right away.
Right away.
And this is what we've
been talking about.
People need to learn this
sort of mental discipline
of quieting the unkind
voices in the head.
Whether it's because
you're singing
and you're fully
present or you're
just sitting
listening very deeply.
Your brain goes into that
alpha brainwave state
where you're just very
present and listening.
And that, again, is
where health happens.
When we're whole, when we're
present, when we're regulating.
>> REGINA: When
we're harmonized.
>> MCKUSICK: When
>> REGINA: We're out of time.
Any final thoughts?
>> MCKUSICK: Hmm.
Well, use your voice.
Explore the beauty and the
gift to yourself in believing.
Everybody can sing.
I couldn't sing for so long.
And this work has
opened my voice
where I can lead
sing alongs now.
>> REGINA: Oh, I love.
>> MCKUSICK: Lead sing alongs
at the end of these workshops
where even a year ago,
Regina, I wouldn't even--
I didn't even want to sing in
front of Isaac and Thorald.
And just practicing these
tones over and over again
has given me so much more
confidence and presence
and enjoyment of my voice.
>> REGINA: I love it.
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
>> REGINA: So sing to yourself.
And you can feel the
harmonization happening.
Anytime you even start
humming to yourself,
your vibration immediately
starts shifting.
>> MCKUSICK: Immediately
starts to shift.
So believe that you can have
a beautiful voice and make it
a goal to get there.
>> REGINA: I love it.
Well, I'm so glad you took
on this new body of work
to add to your already
amazing body of work.
So next time we
see you, who knows
what study you'll have going
and what you'll be up to?
But I'm very appreciative
you took time
to come in because
you're a busy, busy lady.
>> MCKUSICK: Yeah.
You bet, Regina.
It's such a pleasure.
>> REGINA: Thank you.
You can connect with
Eileen's work and tools
and even find sessions with one
of her certified practitioners
by going to biofieldtuning.com.
You can also check out my
other interviews with Eileen
here in the Gaia archives.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]